Maykel Suarez
19530 Belview Dr, Miami, FL 33157
(786) 797-3547 mikemps@gmail.com

Objective

Results driven .Net developer seeks to excel inside a company that delivers high quality software. Holds keen understanding and passion for Agile processes, Test Driven Development and Domain Driven Development. Enjoys founding solid User Experiences supported by Software Patterns.  

Experience

May 2004 to present Alienware, Miami, FL - Software Developer / Engineer. Started in the back-end team managing several company wide applications. Recently moved to the labs team that ships solutions to company’s customers.

. Served as Agile Coach during the team’s adoption of Scrum.
. Configured the Continuous Integration environment with MS Team Server
. Raised the QA bar by driving acceptance tests of WPF with White
. Defined a set of Implementation Patterns to help the team assimilate BDD (NMocks, RhinoMocks)
. Introduced Unit Testing as effective task Assertions for offshore programmers to implement (MSTest)
. Optimized the PC factory process reducing the integration time per computer by 25 percent (C++ Builder, MSSQL)
. Reengineered a legacy Account Manager system into OrderManager in four months using a Smart UI Anti-Pattern (C++, C#)
. Led the team to re-factor the Smart UI into MVP, delivering simultaneously a Smart Client and a Web Interface (C#, ASP.Net)
. Deployed Web Services to act as Repository for the data (C#, SOA, MSSQL)
. Migrated the Intranet into Sharepoint remapping the DB structure and conserving all historic information (ASP.Net, MSSQL)
. Designed a custom Workflow Engine for Sharepoint (C#)

Consultant

May 2007 to Mar 2008 www.e-spare.ca. Concurrently working with a distributed team (Miami/Toronto) developing a Java Web App.

. Used Hibernate to decouple POJOs from the DB
. Orchestrated the UI flow leveraging on Spring-MVC
. Enriched the user experience by adding AJAX (YUI AjaxAnywhere)
. Achieved uniform cross-browser page layout with DHTML and CSS

2002-2003 University of Miami, FL. Developed a budget tracking application for the Admission Office. (Rational Rose, VB, VBA, Access 2000)

2001-2002 www.grocerytaxi.com, Miami, FL. Refactored the website from HTML into ASP.

1998-2000 Panautos, Havana, Cuba. Automated a car rental process. (Delphi, MS SQL)

Education

2001-2003 University of Miami, FL – BS Computer Science
1994-2000 University of Havana, Cuba – BS Computer Science